MIGRATION_SUMMARY.md, before:

# GeoBrains Migration Summary: Vite + React → Next.js

## Overview
This project has been successfully migrated from a Vite + React setup to Next.js with the App Router. This document summarizes the changes made during the migration.

## What Changed

### Files Removed (Vite-specific)
- `api/todos.ts` - Legacy API endpoint
- `index.html` - Vite HTML template
- `src/App.css` - Main CSS file (replaced with `app/globals.css`)
- `src/App.tsx` - Main application component (replaced with `app/page.tsx`)
- `src/index.css` - Root CSS file (replaced with `app/globals.css`)
- `src/main.tsx` - Vite entry point (replaced with Next.js file-based routing)
- `tsconfig.app.json` - Vite-specific TypeScript config
- `tsconfig.node.json` - Vite-specific Node TypeScript config
- `vite.config.ts` - Vite configuration file

### Files Added (Next.js)
- `app/globals.css` - Global styles for Next.js
- `app/layout.tsx` - Root layout component
- `app/page.tsx` - Main page component
- `components/Providers.tsx` - React Query provider wrapper
- `next-env.d.ts` - Next.js environment type definitions
- `next.config.ts` - Next.js configuration file

### Files Modified
- `.gitignore` - Updated to include Next.js patterns and remove Vite patterns
- `README.md` - Updated documentation (already reflected Next.js)
- `package.json` - Updated dependencies for Next.js
- `package-lock.json` - Lock file updated with Next.js dependencies
- `prisma.config.ts` - Prisma configuration
- `prisma/schema.prisma` - Database schema
- `tailwind.config.js` - Tailwind CSS configuration
- `tsconfig.json` - TypeScript configuration updated for Next.js

## Key Changes

### 1. Framework Migration
- **From**: Vite + React 18
- **To**: Next.js 16+ with App Router + React 19

### 2. Routing System
- **From**: React Router or manual routing
- **To**: Next.js App Router (file-based routing)

### 3. Build System
- **From**: Vite
- **To**: Next.js (includes bundler, compiler, and server)

### 4. CSS Handling
- **From**: Manual imports in components
- **To**: Global CSS in `app/globals.css` with Tailwind v4

### 5. State Management
- **Maintained**: TanStack Query (React Query) - unchanged

### 6. Database
- **Maintained**: Prisma with MySQL - unchanged

## .gitignore Updates

The `.gitignore` file has been updated to:

1. **Add Next.js patterns**:
   - `.next/` - Next.js build output
   - `out/` - Alternative output directory
   - Next.js cache files
   - Next.js development artifacts
   - Next.js trace files
   - Next.js diagnostics

2. **Keep Vite patterns for reference**:
   - `dist/` - Vite build output
   - `dist-ssr/` - Vite SSR output

3. **Add environment files**:
   - `.env.local`
   - `.env.development.local`
   - `.env.test.local`
   - `.env.production.local`

4. **Add build output**:
   - `build_output.txt`

## Git Status

All changes have been staged for commit:
- 13 files modified
- 7 files added
- 9 files deleted

## Next Steps

1. **Test the application**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

2. **Build for production**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   npm run start
   ```

3. **Deploy to Vercel**:
   Next.js is optimized for Vercel deployment with zero configuration.

## Benefits of Migration

1. **Better SEO**: Next.js supports server-side rendering and static generation
2. **Improved Performance**: Automatic code splitting and optimized builds
3. **Simplified Routing**: File-based routing with App Router
4. **Enhanced Developer Experience**: Built-in features like fast refresh
5. **Serverless Functions**: Easy API routes with Next.js API routes
6. **TypeScript Support**: First-class TypeScript support
7. **Image Optimization**: Built-in image optimization

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. **Clear Next.js cache**:
   ```bash
   rm -rf .next/
   ```

2. **Reinstall dependencies**:
   ```bash
   rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
   npm install
   ```

3. **Check Next.js documentation**:
   https://nextjs.org/docs

---

**Migration Date**: 2025
**Status**: ✅ Complete

Commit message:

Fix PostgreSQL environment variables and documentation

MIGRATION_SUMMARY.md, after:

# GeoBrains Migration Summary: Vite + React → Next.js

## Overview
This project has been successfully migrated from a Vite + React setup to Next.js with the App Router. This document summarizes the changes made during the migration.

## What Changed

### Files Removed (Vite-specific)
- `api/todos.ts` - Legacy API endpoint
- `index.html` - Vite HTML template
- `src/App.css` - Main CSS file (replaced with `app/globals.css`)
- `src/App.tsx` - Main application component (replaced with `app/page.tsx`)
- `src/index.css` - Root CSS file (replaced with `app/globals.css`)
- `src/main.tsx` - Vite entry point (replaced with Next.js file-based routing)
- `tsconfig.app.json` - Vite-specific TypeScript config
- `tsconfig.node.json` - Vite-specific Node TypeScript config
- `vite.config.ts` - Vite configuration file

### Files Added (Next.js)
- `app/globals.css` - Global styles for Next.js
- `app/layout.tsx` - Root layout component
- `app/page.tsx` - Main page component
- `components/Providers.tsx` - React Query provider wrapper
- `next-env.d.ts` - Next.js environment type definitions
- `next.config.ts` - Next.js configuration file

### Files Modified
- `.gitignore` - Updated to include Next.js patterns and remove Vite patterns
- `README.md` - Updated documentation (already reflected Next.js)
- `package.json` - Updated dependencies for Next.js
- `package-lock.json` - Lock file updated with Next.js dependencies
- `prisma.config.ts` - Prisma configuration
- `prisma/schema.prisma` - Database schema
- `tailwind.config.js` - Tailwind CSS configuration
- `tsconfig.json` - TypeScript configuration updated for Next.js

## Key Changes

### 1. Framework Migration
- **From**: Vite + React 18
- **To**: Next.js 16+ with App Router + React 19

### 2. Routing System
- **From**: React Router or manual routing
- **To**: Next.js App Router (file-based routing)

### 3. Build System
- **From**: Vite
- **To**: Next.js (includes bundler, compiler, and server)

### 4. CSS Handling
- **From**: Manual imports in components
- **To**: Global CSS in `app/globals.css` with Tailwind v4

### 5. State Management
- **Maintained**: TanStack Query (React Query) - unchanged

### 6. Database
- **Changed**: Migrated from MySQL to PostgreSQL
- **Details**: Prisma now targets PostgreSQL (provider changed from MySQL to PostgreSQL)
- **Dependencies**: Added `@vercel/postgres` for PostgreSQL support
- **Environment Variables**: Switched from `DATABASE_URL` (MySQL format) to `POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL` and `POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING` (PostgreSQL format)
- **Migration Commands**: Used `prisma migrate` to apply schema changes for PostgreSQL

## .gitignore Updates

The `.gitignore` file has been updated to:

1. **Add Next.js patterns**:
   - `.next/` - Next.js build output
   - `out/` - Alternative output directory
   - Next.js cache files
   - Next.js development artifacts
   - Next.js trace files
   - Next.js diagnostics

2. **Keep Vite patterns for reference**:
   - `dist/` - Vite build output
   - `dist-ssr/` - Vite SSR output

3. **Add environment files**:
   - `.env.local`
   - `.env.development.local`
   - `.env.test.local`
   - `.env.production.local`

4. **Add build output**:
   - `build_output.txt`

## Git Status

All changes have been staged for commit:
- 13 files modified
- 7 files added
- 9 files deleted

## Next Steps

1. **Test the application**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

2. **Build for production**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   npm run start
   ```

3. **Deploy to Vercel**:
   Next.js is optimized for Vercel deployment with zero configuration.

## Benefits of Migration

1. **Better SEO**: Next.js supports server-side rendering and static generation
2. **Improved Performance**: Automatic code splitting and optimized builds
3. **Simplified Routing**: File-based routing with App Router
4. **Enhanced Developer Experience**: Built-in features like fast refresh
5. **Serverless Functions**: Easy API routes with Next.js API routes
6. **TypeScript Support**: First-class TypeScript support
7. **Image Optimization**: Built-in image optimization

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. **Clear Next.js cache**:
   ```bash
   rm -rf .next/
   ```

2. **Reinstall dependencies**:
   ```bash
   rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
   npm install
   ```

3. **Check Next.js documentation**:
   https://nextjs.org/docs

---

**Migration Date**: 2025
**Status**: ✅ Complete
